everyone Travis here and I am at the
starcraft remaster press event with
Grant who is the engineering lead on
this project talk to me a little bit
about what this whole thing was like
like fusing I'm sure very old systems
with some very new ones yeah absolutely
one of the most important things about
StarCraft II master is that we we don't
touch any of the gameplay we don't
change it so we had to kind of keep that
old gameplay codebase exactly as it was
so it meant kind of digging through this
old codebase and making sure that we
just changed things around the outside
made those quality of life improvements
or the new UI all that kind of stuff
without getting in there and making
fundamental changes as someone who knows
very little about engineering or coding
I just imagine you basically like
rappelling down into the vault of like
ancient code that is maybe hard to
decipher I mean what is it like because
even if you're not changing much
obviously you have to kind of look at
this stuff you know
what is this experience like especially
for people who like myself aren't
familiar looking at you know 20 year old
code and trying to figure it out yeah
well it was a really fun an awesome
experience for me because you get to see
code from people who started Blizzard 20
years ago you know you get to see source
code that's written by by Mike Mahone I
mean that's that's pretty awesome and
like you say you know it the code has
code has changed into the last 20 years
but it is struck me that they were
writing much better code than I was 20
years ago so but certainly you know you
have these these old ideas and these new
ideas the language has involved evolved
so certainly we had to try and make sure
that that meshed nicely in and it'll fit
together properly here did Mike leave
any messages in the code like Mike was
here remember me or whatever Mike is a
Mike Scott is very very proper just just
like you might expect from my from from
talking to the guy very clean not crazy
now so what were some of the goals that
you you all had in because obviously
we're changing the gameplay but you are
adding in new systems and functionality
so you know how did you tackle that what
work some of the goals involved in that
yeah well we had the opportunity to add
a bunch of quality of life features
obviously aside from the HD graphics
we've got things like matchmaking in
there which is a cool new feature that
we're able to add through accessing the
new battlenet system so the game can now
be launched through the Blizzard app the
Blizzard launcher and that means that
once you've signed into the wizard
launcher you don't need to find again
you can go straight into the game and
you don't need to worry about
continually entering your credentials
for every individual profile you've got
you can just click on them and get
straight in there
so certainly working on that and the
chat system matchmaking all that stuff
around the game was was really cool how
much were you able to pull from
you know like obviously something like
Starcraft 2 where after there's
matchmaking systems there how're you
guys basically tasked just building
something from the ground up or were you
able to sort of take you know existing
stuff essentially that exists from other
Blizzard titles and help you know bring
that into this game we were definitely
able to leverage the experience that the
Starcraft 2 guys had in building their
system but nearly all of the code in
StarCraft II master is Starcraft
specific Starcraft 1 specific so it has
been coated in that way from the ground
up but but certainly we've been able to
talk to the guys who worked on Starcraft
2 and benefit from their experience
were there any moments or challenging
moments and all this stuff again with
fusing the old with the new we're there
any moments where you're like I don't
even know how to get these two things to
cooperate because I mean again just not
knowing I would imagine there'd be
moments like that yeah there are
definitely moments like that certainly
whenever you're dealing with a really
old system and trying to bring it into a
modern era you're going to have those
kind of things and and also dealing with
an old service back you know server
technology that is essentially 20 years
old dealing with upgrade system and
patch system that's essentially 20 years
old and bringing that kicking and
screaming into the 21st century as some
challenges for sure now one of the
things that was interesting to me to
hear was that you know all these kind of
add-ons and extra stuff that a lot of
the community has macgyvered into this
game over time you guys actually work
directly with these guys and try to
figure out ways to bring a lot of that
into this game
and make sure that all that
functionality that people are kind of
used to was still there can you talk to
me a little bit about that yeah so that
was really important to us
add-ons that people have made that that
have enhanced the original product and
that people had become accustomed to
over the last 20 years that's something
we wanted to respect and and bring into
the the remaster so where possible we
did reach out to people who had
developed this kind of stuff but it
wasn't always possible but we were able
to engage with the community which was
fantastic for them to give us feedback
on what they liked what they didn't like
and what they wanted to see in the
remaster from these add-ons so things
like hotkeys for example which was a
contentious issue when we put it in the
test realm in 118 and and again the
community gave us a feedback on that
that were able to cycle on that and
produce what we believe is a much better
version for the community and remaster
you know anti-cheat measures so that we
can prevent the hacking in the and
exploits that people have been using so
there's a whole bunch of stuff that that
you'll see in the game that have
originated from the mods and the add-ons
from 1:18 now for a lot of people that
are watching this I'm sure they remember
brood war very fondly but maybe haven't
even loaded up recently having
experienced that a classic battlenet
experience for the people that might not
even remember because I'm sure a lot of
people actually maybe think matchmaking
was part of it because so liquid is now
with gaming what are you know maybe you
can give us a brief overview of like
before and after like what what is it
like now what are we going to be getting
with the remaster sure well like you say
with the matchmaking you know in the old
days before matchmaking you just have to
get in a chat channel kind of call
someone out or or or trash talk your way
to a one-on-one with someone but now
with matchmaking you can find someone
with equal skill level and I think
that's going to be particularly
important for new people getting into
the game you'll find people that are
appropriate skill level rather than just
getting destroyed by some master of the
game he's been playing for 20 years you
know some pro so I think that's
certainly going to help and as far as
the the graphics I think is a standout
yeah
you know we keep hearing this story of
people who played a little bit of a dar
that the remastered art and and then
after the plata for a while they're like
oh this is kind of how it always was
then they go back up and they see the
original I go okay you know but it feels
good that we're able to respect that
style throughout the remaster project so
I think the remaster will feel at home
for people once they've played it a
little bit yeah
sort of sort of winding things down here
one of my favorite pieces of
functionality I don't know if you or
your team had a hand in this but being
able to hit f5 and see just the you know
like you said you know you play it for a
while and you're like oh yes and then
you hit f5 and you look at what it used
to be you know if you were involved in
that maybe you can talk about the
decision to even include that
functionality in the game and and I
don't even know how difficult it is to
just have like the graphics just switch
like that on a with the key press yeah
it's quite a challenge actually
originally with a debug feature to help
us figure out you know if things were
one-to-one because we need to respect
that one for one mapping but people
loved it so much that we're like okay I
guess we've got to keep this into the
feature it's like you say it's really
cool to see that difference and be able
to see it instantly but it certainly has
caught some big challenges for us to get
over I don't imagine anybody getting
into a big fight and being like okay I
need to go see this the way it used to
be in hitting that f5 key I'm sure
people use it once or twice but it is
like a really great way I think is to
sort of celebrate the changes in the
game is there anything by the way that
you would like to say to any of the fans
that are eagerly awaiting the remastered
version this game yeah well for us and
classic games and Blizzard this has been
a labor of love we're all fans of the
game we've all been playing it since it
came out and really hope you guys love
it as much as the effort we've put into
making it thank you so much for the
interview I really appreciate looking
forward to playing the game coming out
in August and for everyone everyone else
you can check out the rest of our
coverage here at place'll youtube
channel to keep this channel ad free
keep using adblock or feel free to
support me over at Travis gaffer comm
slash support